Newsletters: add 179 (2021-12-15) (#700)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2021-12-15-newsletter.md

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #179'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2021/12/15/
name: 2021-12-15-newsletter
slug: 2021-12-15-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter describes a proposal to allow relay of
transactions with zero-value outputs in some cases and summarizes a

> discussion about preparing LN for the adoption of PTLCs.  FIXME:harding

Reviewer: This seems very high level. As far as I understood the posts on the mailing list the discussion was mainly about preparing the communication protocol for setting up and settling PTLCs with as little roundtrips as possible. Maybe we could write something like: 

> ... summarizes a discussion about preparing LN for a stepwise upgrade to PTLCs.

Author: I think this point is covered in the extended description.  I prefer to keep the lede as short as possible.

also included are...

## News

- **Adding a special exception for certain uneconomical outputs:**
  since our description in [Newsletter #162][news162 unec], Jeremy Rubin
  has [renewed][rubin unec] discussion on the Bitcoin-Dev mailing list
  about allowing transactions to create outputs with values below the
  [dust limit][topic uneconomical outputs].  The dust limit is a
  transaction relay policy that nodes use to discourage users from
  creating UTXOs that don't make economic sense to spend.  UTXOs need to
  be stored by at least some full nodes until spent, and in some cases
  be able to be retrieved quickly, so allowing *uneconomical outputs*
  may create problems for no good reason.

    However, there may be a use for zero-value outputs in [CPFP][topic
    cpfp] fee bumping where the none of the funds from the transaction
    being fee bumped can be spent---all the funds used for fee bumping

>     need to come from separate UTXOs, such as in [eltoo][topic eltoo].

Reviewer: aren't anchor outputs the more relevant example here? Anchor outputs are already in practice while eltoo is far from being implemented.

Author: I don't think there's any advantage to anchor outputs being zero-value.  The transaction containing them *needs* to be fee-bumped, so they might as well contain at least the dust amount of funds to contribute towards that fee bumping.

By comparison, most transactions in an eltoo or statechain system will remain offchain (even if they can all hypothetically be put onchain) and so they can't each pay some value towards an output without quickly draining the system of value.  This is usually solved by them using some version of `SIGHASH_SINGLE` to allow adding additional outputs, but Jeremy Rubin made a case that avoiding SINGLE and using CPFP instead might avoid RBF pinning attacks.

- [Bitcoin Core #23716][] adds a native Python implementation of
  RIPEMD-160 to Bitcoin Core's test code.  This allows Bitcoin Core to
  no longer use the RIPMD-160 function from Python `hashlib` library
  which wraps the OpenSSL implementation of RIPEMD-160.  Newer versions
  of OpenSSL no longer provide RIPEMD-160 support by default, requiring
  it to be enabled separately.

- [Bitcoin Core #20295][] rpc: getblockfrompeer FIXME:Xekyo

- [Bitcoin Core #14707][] updates several RPCs to also include bitcoins
  received in miner coinbase transactions.  A new
  `include_immature_coinbase` option to the RPCs allows toggling
  the inclusion of coinbase transactions before they are mature (have
  100 confirmations, the earliest they can be spent according to
  consensus rules).

- [Bitcoin Core #23486][] updates the `decodescript` RPC to only return
  the P2SH or P2WSH addresses for a script if that script can be used,
  respectively, with P2SH or P2WSH.

- [BOLTs #940][] deprecates the announcement and parsing of Tor
  v2 onions in `node_announcements`. [Rust-Lightning #1204][], also
  merged this week, updates that implementation to follow this updated
  specification.

> 

Reviewer: I added https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/918 in a PR in @harding 's repo at https://github.com/harding/bitcoinops.github.io/pull/23 The PR is about dropping the requirement to ratelimit ping and pong messages which ensures higher quality of service for LSPs

Author: I did think this was minor, but I like the description of how it benefits LSPs.  Merged.  Thanks!

lang: en
---
This week's newsletter describes a proposal to allow relay of
transactions with zero-value outputs in some cases and summarizes a
discussion about preparing LN for the adoption of PTLCs.  FIXME:harding
also included are...

## News

- **Adding a special exception for certain uneconomical outputs:**
  since our description in [Newsletter #162][news162 unec], Jeremy Rubin
  has [renewed][rubin unec] discussion on the Bitcoin-Dev mailing list
  about allowing transactions to create outputs with values below the
  [dust limit][topic uneconomical outputs].  The dust limit is a
  transaction relay policy that nodes use to discourage users from
  creating UTXOs that don't make economic sense to spend.  UTXOs need to
  be stored by at least some full nodes until spent, and in some cases
  be able to be retrieved quickly, so allowing *uneconomical outputs*
  may create problems for no good reason.

    However, there may be a use for zero-value outputs in [CPFP][topic
    cpfp] fee bumping where the none of the funds from the transaction
    being fee bumped can be spent---all the funds used for fee bumping
    need to come from separate UTXOs, such as in [eltoo][topic eltoo].

>     Rubin Somsen also [provided][somsen unec] an example of how zero-fee

Reviewer 2: Name misspelled:
```suggestion
    Ruben Somsen also [provided][somsen unec] an example of how zero-fee
```

Reviewer 2: source: https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2021-December/019637.html

Author: Oof, there are few things that embarrass me more than getting names wrong, thank you for catching before publication!

[C-Lightning][c-lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LND][lnd repo],
[Rust-Lightning][rust-lightning repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1
repo], [Hardware Wallet Interface (HWI)][hwi repo],
[Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay Server][btcpay server repo],
[BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], and
[Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #23716][] adds a native Python implementation of
  RIPEMD-160 to Bitcoin Core's test code.  This allows Bitcoin Core to
  no longer use the RIPMD-160 function from Python `hashlib` library
  which wraps the OpenSSL implementation of RIPEMD-160.  Newer versions
  of OpenSSL no longer provide RIPEMD-160 support by default, requiring
  it to be enabled separately.

- [Bitcoin Core #20295][] adds a new RPC `getblockfrompeer` which permits
  requesting a specific block from a specific peer manually. The intended use
  is acquisition of stale chaintips for fork monitoring and research purposes.

- [Bitcoin Core #14707][] updates several RPCs to also include bitcoins
  received in miner coinbase transactions.  A new
  `include_immature_coinbase` option to the RPCs allows toggling

>   the inclusion of coinbase transactions before they are mature (have

Reviewer 3: Perhaps:

```suggestion
  the inclusion of coinbase transaction outputs before they are mature (have
```
